Feedback on Science on The Court at Allen Temple STEM Session on Thursday Jan 29. 


In this session we tried to implement a game that allowed students to break up into teams. 

Several teams have students of different grades. One friction point is that we intended for each team to have a captain that was a 6th grader. But some 6th graders had homework to do so when we broke into teams we have 3 teams with clusters of younger kids…say 2nd or 3rd grade. Older students are meant to be team captains. 

When I asked one of the students for feedback on the activity he was very luke warm at best:
- He indicated that the execution wasn’t smooth and that kids weren’t really clear what to do
* Some of the instructors weren’t really familiar with the game so they found some of the problems kind of confusing
* Also we have 3 instructors available (2 paid, 1 volunteer) it’s no guarantee that the volunteer will be available for the entire session as he may need to leave because of homework. Our paid instructors were not clear on their exact role. Of the 4 problems that we had four each level of student they were able to get through two
* During the homework session I was able to help a young man complete his HW in fractions, then I was able to talk to his Dad about some of his strengths in recognizing patterns and needing to improving on the reading and following steps. This kind of interaction was received very well by the parent. We also helped a young lady prepare for a quiz and we taught her how to always recognize the denominator by comparing ½ and 2/1. A final parent joined the HW session to help her two twins finish their homework before the basketball session. 

The homework sessions or math competition session occur concurrently depending on whether students bring HW to the program. 

Instructor Feedback: Remind Coach G not to try to eat drink while teaching. Coach Christian needs to learn the difference between positive coaching and punitive punishments - he’s not quite creating the kind of environment we want. 

During the second hour of the program there are many kids who wanted to switch to STEM. We allowed switching but needed to put some guard rails in place so we don’t get kids going back and forth. 


Goals: 
1. I want to create an environment where kids are fired up to compete doing math problems!
2. I want my staff to be engaged with students to provide the help that students need
3. I want the older students to assume leadership roles and help others 
4. I want students getting used to problems that require thinking and overcoming frustration rather than just memorizing or being used to having all of the answers 
5. I want fun with an extreme level of focus so that when parents/stakeholders arrive they see this is serious value in our program